# An Exploration of Data Fusion Techniques Applied to Nuclear Forensics Tasks

## Abstract
Increasing the fidelity of analyses of nuclear material is an important goal of technical nuclear forensics R\&D. Many well-proven and mature analysis tools exist; some give visual representations of materials, while others offer clues to the chemical composition. Two such tools are  Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). We present a machine learning framework for fusing these very distinct modalities -- themselves well-studied tools of nuclear forensics -- to increase their specificity together. By allowing the model to use correlations between sources of information through early model fusion, we can significantly improve accuracy over any single model alone, even over baseline methods that incorporate ground-truth information about the resulting uranium ore concentrate (UOC) from the processing route. We use a new dataset of paired SEM images and XRD patterns with data collected from the same material sample to train this framework. If XRD data is limited, we show that generating synthetic patterns using crystallographic information is viable for increasing the available data. Comparing models trained on real and synthetic XRD pattern data, we conclude that our early fusion method trained on real XRD pattern data can utilize processing route information previously hidden in the XRD pattern, outperforming late fusion methods and models trained on synthetic data alone. We expect this work will prompt additional efforts to build multimodal datasets to develop data fusion techniques further.

Repository named after [Fiorenzio Magni](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiorenzo_Magni)
